Title: The Farewell Hajj

[0] Al-Fatiha. alihi wa sahbihi ajma'in. Today is the second to last seerah that we have and all things must come to an end. So today will be our last Wednesday seerah. Our final seerah will be on Saturday, this Saturday insha'Allah ta'ala. And so today we discuss the incident of the hajjat al-wada' or the farewell pilgrimage of the Prophet ﷺ. And there's quite a lot of material to discuss in this particular section. So let us begin immediately. When did Allah reveal the obligation for Hajj? When did Allah reveal the obligation for Hajj? This is actually a very difficult question. And it has a fiqhi analogous, if you like, problem or scenario. And that is, can a person delay Hajj once they're qualified to go? Can they delay it for a few years? This is a classical controversy. So if you say that you can delay it for a few years, so of the evidences that group uses is that hajj was revealed a few years before the Prophet ﷺ went for hajj. So he delayed it a few years. And the other opinion is that no, hajj was revealed, the ayah of hajj came down basically in the 9th year of the hijrah. And so the Prophet ﷺ could, in the early part of the 10th year or the later 9th year, and so the Prophet ﷺ only went as soon as Allah revealed the obligation for hajj. So you understand there's a bit of a controversy, and this controversy lingers on to the four madhahib. Must you go for hajj as soon as you're financially capable? Or are you allowed to wait for a future year of your life thinking that inshallah I'll be alive next year, the year after that. This is a classic controversy from the beginning of time, and this goes back to as well, when did Allah reveal the obligation for hajj? and Ibn Al-Qayyim and many of the scholars they follow the opinion that it is not allowed to delay the Hajj once you have the means to do so so they also then say when was Hajj, the ayah of Hajj when did it come down? in the beginning of the 10th year so as soon as the ayah came down according to them the Prophet ﷺ then went for Hajj in the same year and the fact of the matter is we really don't know for sure when the ayah came down and also historically speaking the bulk of the Muslim world has not gone for hajj the same year that they get their means to do so. So inshaAllah, as long as you have a reasonable niyyah, a legitimate niyyah, that inshaAllah I'm going for hajj soon inshaAllah. And you don't delay it forever and ever, that when I'm 78 years old, when you have a legitimate niyyah, then inshaAllah it is permissible to delay the hajj, even though it is better not to delay the hajj. Nonetheless, there is an ikhtilaf, when did Allah reveal the verse of hajj? And what is the verse of hajj? Surah Al-Imran verse 97.

[1] Nonetheless, there is an ikhtilaf, when did Allah reveal the verse of hajj? And what is the verse of hajj? Surah Al-Imran verse 97. Surah Ali Imran verse 97 وَلِلَّهِ عَلَى النَّاسِ حِجُّ الْبَيْتِ مَنْ اسْتَطَاعَ إِلَيْهِ سَبِيلًا That mankind owes to Allah the pilgrimage to the house whoever is able to do so. So as we said some ulama say this ayah came down in the 10th year of the hijrah even though it's part of Ali Imran. And Ali Imran was revealed. When was Ali Imran revealed? Oh not at all. when in Medina we've talked about this all over the seerah guys we've talked about this when was Ali Imran revealed Uhud at the time of Uhud so Jabir narrates that the Prophet ﷺ spent 9 years not performing Hajj and then in the 10th year of the Hijrah he announced he would be going for Hajj so multitudes of people came to Medina all of them wanting to do Hajj with the Prophet ﷺ and follow his actions. And therefore, the Prophet ﷺ announced a few months before or maybe even a month and a half before that he's going for hajj. So let the people who want to come, come to do hajj with him. So from across the country, from across the lands, people flocked to Medina. And the city swelled up. Tens of thousands of people continued to come. And even by the way, along the way, the entire journey, tens of thousands of people continued to flock. A number of hadith report that the sahaba said as far as the eye could see, we could see flocks of humanity. We looked in front, we could see nothing but men. We look behind, we look to the right, we look to the left. Never in the seerah of our Prophet ﷺ did he have a larger audience, did he have a larger group of people. And as well he began telling them, خُذُ عَنِّي مَنَاسِكَكُمْ خُذُ عَنِّي مَنَاسِكَكُمْ Take your rights of hajj from me because he only did one hajj. He only did one hajj and therefore all of the fiqh of hajj comes from this one hajj.

[2] He only did one hajj and therefore all of the fiqh of hajj comes from this one hajj. All of the controversies, all of the madhahib they come from, basically what did the Prophet ﷺ do, how did he do it, is it obligatory or is it sunnah or is it wajib or is it rukun, all of the controversy over one hajj of the Prophet ﷺ. Ibn Ishaq and others, they tell us that the Prophet ﷺ left for hajj on the 25th of Dhul Qa'dah in the 10th year of the Hijrah and of course he is going to pass away on the 12th of Riyalaw in the 11th year of the Hijrah so it's just a few months before he ﷺ passes away and he prayed Dhuhr in the masjid and he then left Medina on the 25th of Dhul Qa'dah in the 10th year of the Hijrah and he made his way to Dhul Hulayfa which is right outside Medina and he prayed two raka'ah and entered the state of ihram. Entered the state of ihram. And the people from the time of the Prophet ﷺ began calling this hajj, hajjatul wada'ah. The name hajjatul wada'ah, the farewell hajj, was given even in the lifetime of the Prophet ﷺ. And where did this name come from? We learn in a hadith in Sahih Muslim that Ibn Umar says that the Prophet ﷺ stood on the day of sacrifice, يوم النحر, on the day of sacrifice, which is of course, what is the day of sacrifice? The 10th of Dhul Hijjah. And he said, This is هذا يوم الحج الأكبر. This is the day of the big hajj, الحج الأكبر. And he kept on saying, Oh Allah, bear witness, اللهم فاشهد وودع الناس. and he was bidding farewell to the people, saying goodbye to the people. So the people began calling it, this must be the hajjatul wada'a. This is the hajj that he's bidding farewell. And Ibn Umar said, we did not understand the implication. They're calling it hajjatul wada'a, and they're not understanding what does wada'a mean over here. Which is that, what does it mean? The Prophet ﷺ is going to pass away. it didn't click in their minds and they're calling hajatul wada hajatul wada and they don't understand that this means that the Prophet ﷺ is going to literally be bidding farewell so the term hajatul wada comes from the seerah from the sunnah from the actions of the sahaba while the Prophet ﷺ was still alive and of course as we shall discuss in our actual final seerah our Prophet ﷺ had a premonition he knew that this was the end. That is why he's bidding farewell to the people, the tens of thousands of people. And by the way, we don't know how many people perform hajj. So our early scholars just like to give a nice round number, 100,000. The fact of the matter is, nobody knows. Absolutely.

[3] That is why he's bidding farewell to the people, the tens of thousands of people. And by the way, we don't know how many people perform hajj. So our early scholars just like to give a nice round number, 100,000. The fact of the matter is, nobody knows. Absolutely. It is just a complete guesstimation. There is no way of actually estimating how many tens of thousands of people flocked from all over Arabia, from all the tribes. and this was the largest gathering of sahaba and the bulk of the sahaba we don't even know their names because they became sahaba simply by performing hajj with the Prophet ﷺ they became sahaba and they saw him and we have plenty of narrations of anonymous people that we find them in the books of hadith that someone who heard the khutbah of the Prophet ﷺ in hajj says this and he becomes a sahabi and we don't care that he's unknown because if he heard it from the Prophet ﷺ he is a reliable narrator someone who heard or someone who saw the Prophet ﷺ it's narrated in the books of hadith so there are tens of thousands of people a hundred thousand, a hundred fifty thousand we do not know how many people performed the hajj so he left on the 25th of Dhul Qa'dah and he arrived in Mecca on the 4th of Dhul Hijjah on the 4th of Dhul Hijjah and this is 10 days exact and it would take 10 days on average for a large caravan that is going at an average speed. Not too slow, not too fast. It would take 10 days from Medina to Mecca or from Mecca to Medina. And so our Prophet ﷺ camped outside of Mecca. He arrived at night. He camped outside of Mecca. It was not his sunnah to enter any city at night. We've discussed this before. And also for adab for the Ka'bah as he did not want to enter it in a tired state. He rested, he woke up in the morning, prayed Fajr and then took a ghusl in the state of Ihram. So this shows us that in the state of Ihram, you're allowed to take a ghusl. Obviously this is well known, there's no ikhtilaf over here. And he then entered Mecca in the daytime, early morning he entered Mecca on the morning of the Sunday. On the morning of the Sunday. and he performed the tawaf the first three of them quickly and then the rest of the four slowly and of course the people performed with him and then he announced a change or a twist in the plans and he said if I had known then at the beginning of my journey what I know now I would not have made the niyyah of combining the hajj and umrah and I would have made the niyyah of separating the hajj and umrah, and I would not have brought my animals with me. In other words, he has now changed his mind, but he cannot act upon that change of mind. Now what is this little bit of fiqh here? If you have your animals with you, in the sharia, those animals are sacred animals in hajj. Now this is very rare in our times, who brings animals with them, right? This is very rare to bring animals with you. So when you enter ihram, you will then consecrate your animals.

[4] If you have your animals with you, in the sharia, those animals are sacred animals in hajj. Now this is very rare in our times, who brings animals with them, right? This is very rare to bring animals with you. So when you enter ihram, you will then consecrate your animals. This is basically, you put some decorations and something on it, and those animals, you don't ride them, and you basically treat them as gifts for the hujjaj, and you take them with you, and you then distribute to the poor. You must remain in ihram until those animals are distributed. Okay? So, our Prophet ﷺ had told Ali to bring 100 camels from Yemen. So this also shows you don't have to physically bring the animal, but your niyyah is this is the animal with me so he when he got to Mecca said you know if I had knew then what I know now which is an Arabic expression basically if I knew better if I thought about this more I would have actually done something else and what would he have done? Hajj Tamattu what is Hajj Tamattu? you do the Umrah then you get out of Ihram then you remain in Mecca without Ihram until the 8th then you re-enter Ihram and then you do a hajj. So he announced to the people everybody who came without their animals get out of your ihram and become halal again. i.e. ihram and halal are two different things, the opposite. Get out of your ihram and become halal again. Now this was unique and new. This is not something pre-Islam had allowed. And this was new. And some of the sahaba said, Ya Rasulullah, how can we become halal again? Do you expect us to even be intimate with our families, they had brought their families with them and the Prophet ﷺ said, yes, everything is halal everything is halal, so this was they couldn't imagine basically getting out of ihram in between hajj and umrah this was, I'm sorry, umrah and hajj because that was not something that pre-Islam had done, and this is something Islam came with, and Aisha narrated that, so therefore some people made the intention for both hajj and umrah together this is Quran, and some people made it only for Umrah at that time meaning Umrah and then Hajj and some people made it only for the Hajj and this is Ifrad and this Hadith is in Bukhari and from this we get the famous everybody who's been for Hajj and those of you who haven't you should know this by now because this is common knowledge there are three types of Hajj Hajj-i-Qiran, Hajj-i-Ifrad, Hajj-i-Tamattur all three types pretty much are Ja'iz and there's a controversy which one is better but all three are Ja'iz our Prophet ﷺ performed Qiraan. But he clearly told the Sahaba to do Tamattu. And some of them also did Ifrad. So very briefly, Tamattu, you do the Umrah, you get out of Ihram, then you enter Ihram and you do Hajj. Umrah and Hajj, two separate acts, one journey. Qiraan, Umrah and Hajj, two acts, one journey, one Ihram. You don't get out. So you stay in Ihram for all of those days.

[5] Umrah and Hajj, two separate acts, one journey. Qiraan, Umrah and Hajj, two acts, one journey, one Ihram. You don't get out. So you stay in Ihram for all of those days. Which is what our Prophet ﷺ did. And then ifrad, you don't do umrah, you just go straight to the hajj. And that's also allowed. So all of these three, some of the sahaba did some of them. And as I had said, Ali was in Yemen. I already talked about Ali being in Yemen a few lessons ago. Ali had been sent to Yemen to be a judge, a arbitrator, a dispute settler amongst them. And he then sent word to Ali, bring 100 camels from Yemen and meet me in Mecca for the hajj. And so Ali arrived with an entourage, he came with a group of people, and he came with the 100 camels, and he immediately entered into the tent of Fatima radiallahu anha, because he had not been with Fatima for a long time, to say salam to her. Now Ali is in ihram, so if they're in ihram obviously, then everything is not allowed. But then he sees Fatima, and she's wearing normal clothes, and she's perfumed, and she has kuhl in her eyes. and he gets angry at her he says what are you doing? we're doing hajj how can you be dressed normally? so she says my father, the Prophet ﷺ told me to get out of ihram and this is news to him so he marches to the Prophet ﷺ and he says ya Rasulullah Fatima is dressed with this and this and she said you told her to do this and so he's confused like what is going on here? I thought we're doing hajj so the Prophet ﷺ said yes she has spoken the truth I commanded them to get out of ihram and you as well, you can get out of ihram, which niyyah did you come with? because if you came with the niyyah of doing hajj with the niyyah of basically only doing hajj, it's okay your niyyah for only doing hajj can then be become tamattu' so you can get out of ihram so Ali said, ya Rasulullah when I came from Yemen I said, labbayk upon the niyyah of the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam Wallahi this shows us really the status of Ali ibn Abi Talib That he didn't know what to say So he said whatever the process I'm doing I'm doing it So that basically meant Quran he's gonna stay in ihram He's gonna stay in ihram because he said I'm upon your niyyah ya Rasulullah And so Ali also stayed in ihram Throughout that time And the bulk of the sahaba Ended up doing tamattu' Some of them did ifrah those that came later especially they just did a farad. And a very small few, those that had brought their animals with them, they ended up doing Qiraan. And amongst them was our Prophet ﷺ. So our Prophet ﷺ entered Mecca. So, sorry, I made a mistake. He camped outside of Mecca on the Saturday. He entered Mecca on the Sunday. I said he camped on Sunday. No, he camped Saturday.

[6] And amongst them was our Prophet ﷺ. So our Prophet ﷺ entered Mecca. So, sorry, I made a mistake. He camped outside of Mecca on the Saturday. He entered Mecca on the Sunday. I said he camped on Sunday. No, he camped Saturday. He entered Mecca Sunday morning. And he did tawaf Sunday morning. And he stayed in Mecca Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, four full days he stayed in Mecca and then on the morning of Thursday which was the 8th of Dhul Hijjah he prayed Fajr in the Ka'bah and he then made his way towards Mina and from here the books of Sira and the books of Hadith all mention hundreds of narrations of he did this in Hajj he did that in Hajj and that is more befitting of a Fiqh class every single Hadith of Fiqh pertaining to Hajj takes place now You can imagine all of the hadith of the fiqh of hajj takes place now. We have literally hundreds, entire books in the collections of hadith. And the bulk of them deal with fiqh. There's one hadith that is considered to be the mother of all hadith when it comes to the hajj of the Prophet ﷺ. And that is the hadith of Jabir. That is the hadith of Jabir. Why? Because it is the longest. It is actually three, four pages long. And I'm just gonna quickly go over it just to be thorough. most of this is more fiqh related so I'm not going to unpack it because it really deals with the fiqh of the hajj we are more concerned with the spiritual and the moral aspects of the seerah of the Prophet in this regard so this is the hadith of Jabir from Sahih Muslim in Sahih Muslim, in the hadith of Jabir it is reported by Ja'far ibn Muhammad and Ja'far ibn Muhammad from the Al-Bayt, the famous Ja'far ibn Muhammad from his father that we went to Jabir ibn Abdullah. And he began asking about who all of us were until it was my turn. So this is Muhammad, Ja'far ibn Muhammad is reporting from his father, Muhammad. And this is, who is this Muhammad? This is Muhammad ibn Ali ibn Hussain ibn Ali ibn Abi Talib. This is the Al-Bayt. Okay?

[7] And he began asking about who all of us were until it was my turn. So this is Muhammad, Ja'far ibn Muhammad is reporting from his father, Muhammad. And this is, who is this Muhammad? This is Muhammad ibn Ali ibn Hussain ibn Ali ibn Abi Talib. This is the Al-Bayt. Okay? This is Ja'far ibn Muhammad ibn Ali ibn Hussain ibn... Ali ibn Abi Talib Ali ibn Husayn ibn Ali Husayn's father is Ali and Husayn's son is Ali and of course for the 12 Rashi'as these are their Imams all of these are their Imams Ja'far al-Sadiq and Muhammad al-Baqir and Ali Zain al-Abideen these are the same people and from our perspective they are extremely righteous people and of the best people on earth alive at their time but they don't have powers and attributes that other groups give them so this is Muhammad that is called Muhammad al-Baqir Muhammad ibn Ali ibn Hussein so I was a young man at the time this is the great great great grandson of the Prophet ﷺ and Jabir ibn Abdullah was one of the last Sahaba to die Subhanallah I should know his date I forgot his date now 76 or something around that time 70 something for sure Jabir ibn Abdullah was one of the last of the Sahaba to die and at this point in time he was a blind old man he was a blind old man so when I said I am Muhammad ibn Ali ibn Hussain what not so he stood up he placed his hand on my head and he opened up he's blind he opened up my shirt and he touched me like he wants to touch the great great grandson of the Prophet ﷺ like he wants to feel and also to bless him and to get blessings from him so and he touched me and he then said ask what you want you are welcome my nephew so he's showing respect to the Al-Bayt and it is a part of Sunni Islam, as I have said throughout, to respect the Al-Bayt, those who are righteous amongst them. Ask whatever you want. And the hadith goes on, and eventually he says, tell me about the Hajj of the Prophet ﷺ. So this is the great-great-grandson of the Prophet ﷺ asking Jabir ibn Abdullah, tell me about the Hajj of the Prophet ﷺ. So Jabir begins his long hadith. I'm gonna quickly go over it. So Jabir pointed out with nine fingers, he's blind, he put up nine fingers. And he said, for nine years the Prophet ﷺ did not perform the Hajj. Then he made an announcement in the tenth year that he was about to perform the Hajj. So large numbers of people came to Medina, all of them eager to follow the Prophet ﷺ and to be behind him as he did the Hajj. Can you imagine the excitement that who is going to lead the caravan? It is none other than Rasulullah ﷺ. So we reached Dhul Hulayfa and Asma binti Umayis gave birth to Muhammad ibn Abi Bakr. So Abu Bakr had married Asma and Asma, we talked about Asma by the way many many seers ago. She was married to so many sahaba. So she gives birth to the final son of Abu Bakr. This is Muhammad ibn Abi Bakr.

[8] So Abu Bakr had married Asma and Asma, we talked about Asma by the way many many seers ago. She was married to so many sahaba. So she gives birth to the final son of Abu Bakr. This is Muhammad ibn Abi Bakr. Okay, so she gives birth, and she sends a message to the Prophet ﷺ, what should I do? I just given birth, basically I'm bleeding. So the Prophet ﷺ said, take a bath, bandage your private parts, and put on ihram. So you can enter ihram. Women can enter ihram in their monthly cycle, and in their postpartum bleeding, they can enter ihram. Okay, so when they pass the miqat, they still enter ihram, even though they cannot pray, and they cannot do tawaf, but they still enter ihram. So again, all of this is fiqh. So the Prophet ﷺ then prayed in Dhul Hulayfa, then mountain on Qaswa, and it stood with him with its back to Al-Bayda, which is one of the valleys. And I saw as far as I could see in front of me, nothing but riders and pedestrians. And to my right, nothing but riders and pedestrians. And to my left, nothing but riders and pedestrians. And behind me as well, the same. and the Prophet ﷺ was prominent amongst us meaning he was the middle he was in the middle on his camel he was the prominent amongst us and he's reminiscing and he must feel all of the memories coming back so he says and the Qur'an was still coming down so he's telling this is now 70 years afterwards right so he's saying the Qur'an was still being revealed at that time so he himself is getting excited that those days are bringing him nostalgic memories that the Qur'an was still being revealed and he was the most knowledgeable of the Quran meaning I wish he was still here we could ask him questions and whatever he did we followed him in all that he did and when he got on his camel he said Allahu Akbar La ilaha illallah Labbayka Allahumma labbayk Labbayka la sharika laka labbayk Innal hamda wal ni'mata laka wal mulk and he said other people also pronounced it other talbiyas and the Prophet ﷺ did not say anything to them So they had slight variations as well. And all of this was praise of Allah. And these are mentioned in the books of sunnah. And that is all fine. And he said, We did not have any niyyah other than the hajj. We weren't knowledgeable of doing umrah and hajj. So he didn't understand tamattur. But when we came with him to the house, to the Ka'bah, he touched the black stone and made seven tawafs, three of them running and four of them walking.

[9] We weren't knowledgeable of doing umrah and hajj. So he didn't understand tamattur. But when we came with him to the house, to the Ka'bah, he touched the black stone and made seven tawafs, three of them running and four of them walking. then he prayed behind Maqam Ibrahim now all of these you have heard my fiqh of Umrah and fiqh of Hajj, these are now from that, like you literally the same phrases you find it, right this is where it's coming from Jabir ibn Abdullah gave the long hadith and he prayed behind Maqam Ibrahim and he recited the verse in the Quran wa'takhidhu min Maqam Ibrahim musalla and he took the Maqam between him and the Kaaba, so he prayed the Maqam and the Kaaba he prayed in the maqam and the ka'bah and he recited surah al-kafirun and surah al-ikhlas in the first and the second rak'ah then he returned once again to the pillar, the hajar, al-aswad and he kissed it he then went out of the gate to as-safa and when he reached it he recited the quran inna as-safa wal-marwata min sha'airillah faman hajja al-bayta aw i'tamara falajuna halehi an yattawafa bihima that safa and marwa or from the signs of Allah. I shall begin with what Allah has began with, which is Safa. And he climbed up a Safa until he could see the Kaaba and he turned around and he faced the Kaaba and he said, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar. La ilaha illallah wahda. Sadaqa wahda. Wa nasara abda. Wa a'azza junda. Wa hazama al-ahzaba wahda. La ilaha illallah. Wa la na'budu illa iya. Mukhlisina lahuddina. وَلَوْ كَرِهَ الْكَافِرُونَ This is the famous dua that is said or it is sunnah to say when you are doing tawaf or doing sa'i and it translates as or the phrase that is especially interesting for us that he says in this that Allah has fulfilled his promise and Allah has spoken the truth and Allah has aided his servant and Allah has destroyed all of the armies by himself and what a perfect thing to say when Mecca is now returned to him. And he has not had to fight any battle to conquer Mecca because Allah blessed him with Mecca without a battle. That he took an army but there was no war. And Allah averted battle. And we talked about the conquest of Mecca. So he is now praising Allah for having given him Mecca. He has fulfilled the promise. And he has spoken the truth. And so he then stood a long time making dua. And he repeated these words three times.

[10] That he took an army but there was no war. And Allah averted battle. And we talked about the conquest of Mecca. So he is now praising Allah for having given him Mecca. He has fulfilled the promise. And he has spoken the truth. And so he then stood a long time making dua. And he repeated these words three times. then he descended and walked towards Marwah then when his feet came to the bottom of the valley he ran in our times it is now the green posts in the time of the Prophet ﷺ it was still the valley it was still actually two mountains that you would literally go down under and those green lights, those green posts are meant to indicate when you would dip under where our mother Hajar when she went under she couldn't see Ismail that is why she ran to get to the other side so she could see Ismail and so up until the day of the process and it was still down of course later on it was changed and now of course it is completely flat and he did the same at Marwah then when he finished he said if I had known now what I know if I had known before what I know now I would not have brought my sacrificial animals and I would have only performed an Umrah now whoever amongst you does not have his animals should only perform an Umrah and get out of the ihram. This is tamattu. So, Suraqa ibn Malik stood up. This is the same Suraqa ibn Malik we read about so many years ago. Now he's come back to Medina just to do the hajj. Just to be with the Prophet ﷺ one more time. Suraqa ibn Malik stood up and he said, Ya Rasulullah, is this rule only for this year or is it for every year? Meaning this is a new thing we've heard. That you can come for hajj and then get out of ihram before you do the hajj. And this is tamattu. So our Prophet ﷺ intertwined the fingers of his hand. شَبَّكَ بَيْنَ أَصَابِعِهِ And he said, حَجْ and عُمْرَ has been combined together until the day of judgment. Meaning this now law of being able to do an عُمْرَ and a حَجْ in one journey, while getting out of Ihram, this is إِلَى يَوْمِ الْقِيَامَةِ It's not something that is only for this year. And then Ali came back from Yemen. with the hadith from the Prophet ﷺ and found Fatima to be there amongst those who had taken the ihram off. And she was wearing colorful clothing and she had applied kuhl. Now of course Fatima is the great-great-grandmother of the person in front of him. So he is now bringing this in to give him a family anecdote. Even though he is not Al-Bayt, he is Jabir. But he knows this detail and he is telling something to the great-great-grandson of Fatima herself.

[11] Now of course Fatima is the great-great-grandmother of the person in front of him. So he is now bringing this in to give him a family anecdote. Even though he is not Al-Bayt, he is Jabir. But he knows this detail and he is telling something to the great-great-grandson of Fatima herself. and Ali became irritated that how come you dress like this she said my father told me to do so we talked about this phrase so I'll jump over it and then Ali said that Jabir said the total number of animals brought by Ali from Yemen was 100 100 camels our process them had ordered from Yemen of course this is a fortune this is a massive amount this is a large amount of wealth and our Prophet ﷺ had purchased 100 camels from the people of Yemen. And on the day of Tarwiyah, which is the 8th of Dhul Hijjah, the rest of the Sahaba clipped their nails, they entered into the state of Ihram and went to Mina. And the Prophet ﷺ led the way and he prayed in Mina, Dhuhar and Asr and then Maghrib and Isha and then Fajr. So he's telling us what we do in Mina. Dhuhar al-Asr and Maghrib al-Isha and then Fajr he prayed in Mina. He then waited till the sun rose a little. So this is on what day now? 9th. The 9th of Dhul Hijjah. This is on the 9th of Dhul Hijjah. He waits till the sun rose a little. And commanded that a tent be pitched for him at Namira. Namira is the land right outside of Arafah. it's literally connected to Arafah it's like the one stop before Arafah is Namirah so he told the people get my tent ready at Namirah so the Prophet ﷺ then set out towards Namirah and the Quraysh did not doubt that he would stop at Al-Masha'al Al-Haram the sacred site now pause here one needs to understand something about the Quraysh and their rituals of Hajj So Al-Mash'al al-Haram Which is Muzdalifah Is and Mina Muzdalifah and Mina Is inside the Haram area of Mecca Clear? There is a Haram area The sacred area of Mecca Where all the rules of Fiqh apply You cannot hunt animals You cannot pluck trees You cannot carry weapons That is the Haram area And it is defined by Classical Islam By the Seerah By the Prophet ﷺ So So Mina and Muzdalifah, they come inside the Haram. Arafah is sacred land but it is not inside the Haram. Arafah is holy for the Hajj. Okay, we go there, we stand there. But Arafah is not inside the Haram. So the Quraysh invented a new doctrine. And the Quraysh said, we are the people of the Haram. how can we leave the haram in hajj and stand at arafat that's for the rest of you guys we will stay at the very boundary of the haram which is muzdalifah at a place called al mash'al al haram which is also a particular jabl, a particular mountain, is that clear?

[12] how can we leave the haram in hajj and stand at arafat that's for the rest of you guys we will stay at the very boundary of the haram which is muzdalifah at a place called al mash'al al haram which is also a particular jabl, a particular mountain, is that clear? right, so they reinvented the rules of hajj to make it elitist for themselves we're too holy for you guys you guys go to arafat So the Quraysh would not stand at Arafat. Believe it or not. The Quraysh would not stand at Arafah. They would not go to the pillar of Hajj thinking they're too holy to leave the Haram. You measly mortals go. We are the elite of the Quraysh. So when the Prophet ﷺ said, sent my tent at Namirah, the Quraysh who are new Muslims assumed, okay, he's gonna stick with our tradition. Because Namirah is right outside of Arafah. It's not inside Arafah. So they thought that the Prophet ﷺ would stop at al-Mash'ad al-Haram. The Prophet ﷺ however, passed on al-Mash'ad al-Haram. He continued going until he came to Arafah and he camped at Namirah. And Namirah as we said, literally Namirah finishes and Arafah begins literally like this room and that hall in the back. Literally, there's a line. And if you go there, you will see that the Masjid of Arafah, the Masjid of Arafah, which is called Masjid Namirah, a little bit of it is outside and most of it is inside. and there's a line inside the masjid if you go inside the masjid you will see this is where Arafah begins literally there's a line so our Prophet ﷺ camped a stone's throw away, 10 feet away from the line like he literally is at Namirah which is right outside the plains of Arafah and he camped at Namirah then he got down until the sun had passed the meridian so the sun now the zawal begins and as soon as the Zawal begins then he commanded bring my camel to me and he continued going inside Arafah in other words he waited till right at the beginning of Dhuhr then he entered Arafah clear? he literally camped waiting for the millisecond after Dhuhr begins then he enters Arafah which was new for the Quraysh he enters Arafah and he made his way to Batn al-Wadi and this is the valley of Arana which is there inside of Arafat. And he addressed the people over there. So he gave them a khutbah. We're gonna come back to this khutbah. By the way, a common misconception is that he gave one khutbah. No, he gave at least three khutbahs. He gave at least three khutbahs. And inshallah that's what's gonna be after I finish the hadith of Jabir. I will go back and talk about those khutbahs. He gave a khutbah on the day of Arafah right now. And this was the most important because this is the day of Arafah. And it is established the sunnah that every single year the khatib or the imam gives a khutbah on Arafah.

[13] I will go back and talk about those khutbahs. He gave a khutbah on the day of Arafah right now. And this was the most important because this is the day of Arafah. And it is established the sunnah that every single year the khatib or the imam gives a khutbah on Arafah. Okay, this is the khutbah of Arafah. And he also gave khutbahs in Mina as well. Not to the level, smaller khutbahs, but he gave khutbah on the 10th and khutbah on the 11th, maybe even on the 12th. And these are recorded in the various books. So, of course, there's 100, 150,000 people and he's getting multiple opportunities to speak to the masses. So, he takes advantage of conveying different information to the masses. And we're gonna come back to this khutbah, what he said. And then the Prophet ﷺ asked Bilal to make the iqamah. And so the Prophet ﷺ then led them in dhuhr and asr. And he did not pray anything in between. Just dhuhr and then just asr, two and two. As we all know in hajj, when you get to Arafah, you pray dhuhr and asr together. then the Prophet ﷺ after he gave the khutbah he then mounted his camel again and made his way to where the rocks are which is what we now call Jabal al-Rahma he made his way to Jabal al-Rahma so from the masjid which is now the masjid because these masjids have been built afterwards obviously to commemorate where he's doing these things from the masjid he gives the khutbah and then he goes to what is now Jabal al-Rahma and in all likelihood he did not climb the mountain or if he climbed it, he only went a little bit. Nothing is mentioned that says that he climbed to the top of the mountain. And in any case, what he said there was, وَقَفْتُهَا هُنَا وَعَرَفَتُ كُلُّهَا مَوْقِفْ I have happened to stand here, but all of Arafah is a place of standing. Wherever you are, it's fine. So he's literally saying there's nothing special about coming to Jabal Rahmah. And that's something very important to know because a lot of people get lost and go to great lengths to go to Jabal Rahmah and there's no need to do that. Anywhere in Arafah is exactly the same. And he said the same in Mina by the way. I happen to camp here but all of Mina is a camping ground. And he said the same in Muzdalifah. I spend the night here but all of Muzdalifah is a spending night ground. And wallahi this shows us the fiqh of the Prophet ﷺ, his care and concern that he fully understands that people might somehow think this one area. No, all of Arafah, all of Mina, all of Muzdalifah is the same when we go there for Hajj. Back to the hadith of Jabir. Back to the hadith of Jabir.

[14] No, all of Arafah, all of Mina, all of Muzdalifah is the same when we go there for Hajj. Back to the hadith of Jabir. Back to the hadith of Jabir. And he continued to stand there at the bottom of Jabir Rahma from after Dhuhr basically until sunset. And he continued to make dua. Muballahi, you read this and your mind just boggles. Like anybody who's been for Hajj, You cannot, more than 20-30 minutes, then you just get tired, you need to freshen up, go, you know, it's hot, what not. Non-stop, from the time he gets to Jabal Rahma until Maghrib, he's standing there with his hands raised. Making dua, making dua, making dua. Hours go by and he is making dua and of course that is the essence of hajj. Al-Hajju Arafah, as our Prophet ﷺ said, until the sun had set, and the yellow light had disappeared in the sky, and the disc of the sun had completely gone below. He then put Usama ibn Zayd, Zayd of course was his quote-unquote adopted son, as you know the Zayd ibn Khalid, this is Usama ibn Zayd, on the camel besides him, behind him, and he pulled the nose string of Qaswa, Qaswa is of course his camel, until it almost touched his saddle. Meaning he's holding the camel back. He's not rushing it forward. Meaning he's taking the camel very slow. And he continued to go towards Muzdalifah telling the people with his hands, slow down, slow down. If only the drivers of our times followed this slow down command, right? But subhanAllah he's understanding there will be people, this gonna happen. So he himself from Arafat to Muzdalifah, and of course all of us that have been for Hajj, they know this is the most chaotic time. The most chaotic time. And our Prophet ﷺ, even though nobody is gonna block him. Correct? Nobody is gonna... Still, what does he wanna do? He wants to set the example for us. He wants to show us. And with his hands he's telling the people, slow down, slow down. No need to hurry. you'll get there and he proceeded this way until he reached Muzdalifah somebody asked him Ya Rasulullah As-Salaah how about Maghrib what are we gonna do and he pointed forward he said As-Salaah to Amamak the Salah is in front of you in other words we're gonna pray Maghrib and Isha in Muzdalifah we're not supposed to pray Maghrib now we pray it in Muzdalifah and so he continued until he reached Muzdalifah there he led them in Maghrib and Isha with one adhan and two iqamas. So again shortened end, three and two, maghrib and isha, you pray one adhan and two iqamas. And the Prophet ﷺ then laid down and rested until he offered the dawn prayer. This is in Muzdalifah. And he then made dua in Muzdalifah. This is a sunnah that most people don't do, to stay in Muzdalifah and make dua until the sun had become bright.

[15] And the Prophet ﷺ then laid down and rested until he offered the dawn prayer. This is in Muzdalifah. And he then made dua in Muzdalifah. This is a sunnah that most people don't do, to stay in Muzdalifah and make dua until the sun had become bright. until the sun had become bright and then he made his way to al-Mash'al al-Haram and he faced the Qibla and supplicated to Allah and glorified him until the sun was bright I already mentioned this this is in Muzdalifah he then hastened before the sun rose up he hastened back to basically go to the Ka'bah and to go to excuse me to Mina and he followed the middle road which comes out at the great Jamrah and there he threw his seven pebbles saying Allahu Akbar which each of these pebbles and he threw from the bottom of the valley so from the side now subhanallah if you're facing Mecca it's gonna be on the right hand side but again all of it is fine if you throw from the other side that's fine as well but he threw from the bottom of the valley and he said Allahu Akbar in each of these Ramiz and then he went to the place of sacrifice and sacrificed 63 camels with his own hand. 63 camels of the hundreds, hundred camels that Ali had brought him. Now Jabir's report does not mention this. Another hadith mentions that when our Prophet ﷺ took the knife to the herd of camels, they all were rushing to see which one would be the first. And they were racing to be slaughtered at the hands of the Prophet ﷺ, one by one. We know that's not what animals do. Rather when they see the knife, they turn and flee. But in this case, the animals were racing to see which one would be the one that slaughters with the hands of the Prophet ﷺ. He then gave the remaining to Ali to slaughter, 37 basically, to make it a total of 100. So he slaughtered one camel for every year of his life. 63 years old now. He slaughtered one camel for every year of his life. And the remainder he gave to Ali to slaughter. He then commanded that a piece of flesh be taken from each of those animals. So all of those 100 animals, just take a little bit and then put it in a pot to cook. And this is of course to feed the poor and also to eat yourself. And when it was cooked, he took some meat out and he ate and he drank of its soup. So this is again, one of the sunnahs that he had done is that yes, you cook the meat you eat it, you give it to others and this is a sunnah we all do to this day alhamdulillah the meat of the udhiyah is halal for us and we also distribute it to the poor and the fuqara and then our Prophet ﷺ then rode again and went to the Ka'bah so he's done what he needs to do at Mina now he goes to the Ka'bah and he prayed the dhuhr prayer in the haram he then went to the Banu Abdul Muttalib and they were the ones in charge of taking the water of Zamzam out and he asked them, draw water out. Ya Bani Abdul Muttalib.

[16] Ya Bani Abdul Muttalib. And were it not for the fact that the people would take this right away, if I were to do it, I would have helped along with you. Meaning, and wallahi this is amazing, our Prophet ﷺ understands, if I draw water, everybody will want to take this right because I did it. So in order to save the ummah that, I'm not gonna do it. And you go ahead and do it and I'll just drink from what you give me. This is what he is saying. That if I were to draw the water out, then others would take it away from you because I did it. So they want to follow my sunnah. And he understands therefore that people are so eager to follow him, that they're gonna do everything he has done. And so he says, because of this, I'm not gonna draw water, you draw water out, and I'll just basically drink from your water. And then they handed him a cup, and he drank from the water. This is the hadith of Jabir ibn Abdullah. And as I said, quite literally without exaggeration, there are hundreds of a hadith about the hajj of the Prophet ﷺ. Each one of which gives primarily fiqh rulings. We're not really that concerned in the seerah class about those fiqh rulings. Most important for us for this seerah episode is the khutbahs of our Prophet ﷺ. And as I said, he actually gave multiple khutbahs.

[17] We're not really that concerned in the seerah class about those fiqh rulings. Most important for us for this seerah episode is the khutbahs of our Prophet ﷺ. And as I said, he actually gave multiple khutbahs. One in Arafat and two or maybe even three in Mina One in Arafat and two or maybe three in Mina And on the day of Arafah of that year It happened to be a Friday as well And this is from where the notion comes from There are prophecies called that Hajj This is the day of Al-Hajj Al-Akbar Al-Hajj Al-Akbar Now, number of points here Al-Hajj Al-Akbar is the ninth of Dhul Hijjah and every hajj that we go to is hajj akbar and if there's anything called hajj asghar it is umrah if there's anything called hajj asghar it is umrah but unfortunately what has happened is there's this cultural notion that if arafah falls on a friday then it becomes hajj akbar and this is a misunderstanding of what the Prophet ﷺ is saying that's not what he is saying however if Arafah does fall on Hajj and this last year actually that happened when we were there for Hajj it did happen so when it does happen no doubt there's some extra blessings and we thank Allah for that Friday is blessed and the 9th is blessed so blessing upon blessing but if it doesn't fall on a Friday the Hajj is no lesser of a Hajj it's not Hajj Asghar versus Hajj Akbar no all Hajj that we go to is Hajj Akbar and in particular the 9th of Dhul Hijjah is the day of Al-Hajj Al-Akbar so this is a misunderstanding however in the time the process it so happened coincidence that or Allah's Qadr that Arafah fell on a Friday so the 9th of Dhul Hijjah came on a Friday and it was on the 9th of Dhul Hijjah standing on the plains of Arafah that Allah revealed Wahi to him so the Wahi of the Quran came down on this auspicious occasion and this is now the famous verse in the Quran اليوم أكملت لكم دينكم وأتممت عليكم نعمتي ورضيت لكم الإسلام دينا that today I have completed your religion for you and perfected my blessings upon you and chosen Islam as your way of life this was the verse revealed it is not the last verse of the Quran because there's still three months left of the life of the Prophet ﷺ other verses will be revealed, perhaps Surah Al-Nasr came down after this as well for sure, some verses of Surah Baqarah came down as well as we'll talk about in our next class inshaAllah, so this is not the last verse revealed but it is one of the last verses and what a beautiful verse, one of the Yahud came to Umar ibn Khattab and he said, O Amir al-Mu'mineen you have a verse in your Quran if we had its equivalent, we would have taken that day as a day of Eid celebration. Umar said what verse?

[18] Umar said what verse? So the Yahudi recited اليوم أكملت لكم دينكم وأزممت عليكم نعمتي ورضيت لكم الإسلام دينه. Umar said I know exactly when this verse was revealed. Our Prophet ﷺ was standing in Arafah on the day of Hajj al-Akbar and Allah revealed this verse. So it was already, it's already a day of celebration for us. And what a fitting ayah to come down. When Islam is at its glorious peak, when 150,000 maybe or 100,000 people are doing hajj, when the entire Arabian peninsula is now upon Islam, when there's not a single idol that is worshipped in the entire peninsula, when all of the Arabs have embraced, وَرَأِتَ النَّاسَ يَدْخُلُونَ فِي دِينِ اللَّهِ أَفْوَاجًا so this verse came down and it was here that our Prophet ﷺ stood up, and some said he was on his camel, some said he stood on his camel, and he gave a sermon and he told Al-Abbas and Ali to quieten the crowd and he told Abbas to repeat after him and in another version this is an interesting point that not many people know in the sunan of Abu Dawud it says that one of the sahaba said that we listen to the Prophet ﷺ khutbah and we could hear it even from our tents so what appears to be the case then is that yes indeed some people did repeat but also somehow the voice of the Prophet ﷺ was amplified it was a miracle basically because the Sahabi is saying we could hear his voice from our tents and that's not something that is normally he's saying from the furthest tents we could hear the voice so from this we get a miracle of the Prophet ﷺ that somehow Allah Azawajal blessed his voice so that the people of Arafah could hear his voice directly and he said so this is the khutbah of Arafah and this is the important khutbah that we know of. And in all likelihood, probably other sentences, he must have said them, but we only get this one paragraph, which is the gist of it. He said, O people, listen to me, for I know not whether I shall meet you again after this year. So he clearly has a premonition. I don't know if I'm gonna be with you next year. Your blood and your money are haram for you, meaning you cannot kill each other, you cannot steal each other's money, Just like this day has its hurmah, its sanctity. In this month, in this land. So he abolishes the law of the jungle, which was rampant in Arabia. The survival of the fittest is gone. Nobody can steal or rape or plunder or kill other people anymore. The law of the jungle is gone.

[19] In this month, in this land. So he abolishes the law of the jungle, which was rampant in Arabia. The survival of the fittest is gone. Nobody can steal or rape or plunder or kill other people anymore. The law of the jungle is gone. Just like today, now the Arabs, all of them, despite their paganism they upheld the sanctity of the haram we talked about this many times they respected the haram they respected the Ka'bah they respected the Hajj they respected Dhul Hijjah they respected the 9th of Dhul Hijjah and no war was, no blood was shed so our Prophet ﷺ was saying you understand how sacred this land is how holy this place is how blessed this day is each one of you's lives and properties is just as sacred as the Ka'bah. Is just as sacred as the 9th of Dhul Hijjah. Is just as sacred as Ash'al al-Hurm. So he is striking the point home, that all of this is gone. Then he said, Verily, everything from the time of Jahiliyyah, تَحْتَ قَدَمِي مَوْضُوعٍ Which is beautiful. تَحْتَ قَدَمِي Under my foot. And it's a very harsh way of saying, a very clear way of saying, It's gone. it's obliterated, it's something of the past under my foot means what? it's trampled over, it's gone تَحْتَ قَدَمِ مَوْضُور eliminated all of the ways of jahiliyyah, everything your cultural ways, your rituals your idol worship, your this and that all of jahiliyyah is gone now this is such a comprehensive and powerful statement your way of life that was jahiliyyah is now gone, islam has come with something new. And then he says, all of the blood feuds from the days of Jahiliyyah are gone. All of your tribal warfare is now, every tribe had a long list of enemies and a long list of allies written in blood. Every tribe had its feuds. Every tribe has its grievances. And this was what was preventing the tribes from uniting. What did our Prophet ﷺ say? All of these blood feuds are under my foot obliterated. Meaning, khalas, gone. No other feud is gonna be there. And he says, the first blood money that I obliterate is the blood money from my own family. The son of Rabi'ah ibn al-Harith. Rabi'ah ibn al-Harith ibn Abdul Muttalib. Al-Harith is the uncle of the Prophet ﷺ. Rabi'ah is his cousin, the son of Rabi'ah. Al-Harith was the oldest of Abdul Muttalib. Abdullah was one of the youngest. So, story here, very brief footnote. one of the sons of Rabi'ah was killed in a war between two tribes, between the Banu Sa'ad and the Hudhayl. And he was being raised by the Banu Sa'ad, just like the Prophet was raised by the Banu Sa'ad, Halima Sa'diyya. So they were raised by the Banu Sa'ad. This boy was caught in the battle.

[20] And he was being raised by the Banu Sa'ad, just like the Prophet was raised by the Banu Sa'ad, Halima Sa'diyya. So they were raised by the Banu Sa'ad. This boy was caught in the battle. He's an innocent boy, young boy, and he was killed by the tribe of Hudhayl. So the Quraysh had a long feud against the Hudhayl because of this. Okay, blood money, 100 camels hadn't been paid, and they're willing to go to war. So this is something owed to the Quraysh. What does the Prophet ﷺ say? The first blood money that I obliterate is my own family's. He's being the role model here. This is money owed to him. What does he say? I'm not gonna take that money. Okay? Then he says, Verily, Verily, the riba from the days of Jahiliyyah is under my foot abolished. It's all gone. And the first riba that I abolish is the riba of my uncle, Al-Abbas ibn Abdul Muttalib. Abbas was a wealthy man by now. And he was well known for giving lots of loans on riba. And when Islam came, riba was prohibited. But this was old news. So he was due lots of interest. Clear? He was due lots of interest. So the Prophet ﷺ said, the first money that I obliterate from riba is the money of my uncle Abbas you pay him back what you got not a penny more subhanallah this is being the role model the leader by example the leader by example my family is gonna benefit from this blood money from this riba but no more so subhanallah what wisdom, what leadership that I'm showing you I'm serious about this my own family will not benefit from riba, my own family will not benefit from the blood feud and the blood money. Then he said, and اتق الله في النساء Fear Allah, be conscious of Allah with regards to women and the rights of women. For you have taken them with the protection of Allah and made them permissible with the name of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala. So in a society where women had no rights whatsoever and this is something so important brothers and sisters that there was no reason for Islam to come and talk about women there was no reason for our Prophet to mention women in the farewell pilgrimage on the day of Arafah in the most important khutbah he ever gave in his life the most important khutbah he ever gave and he has a paragraph about women think about that why? Because no society can flourish if its women are mistreated. No ummah can rise if its women are not treated with dignity and respect. So he said, fear Allah with regards to your women. اتقوا الله Fear Allah with regards to your women. For basically Allah has given them to you, you have used his name to make them halal. So he's reminding them, the nikah contract has in the name of Allah.

[21] So he said, fear Allah with regards to your women. اتقوا الله Fear Allah with regards to your women. For basically Allah has given them to you, you have used his name to make them halal. So he's reminding them, the nikah contract has in the name of Allah. and you are now they are now with you under the protection of Allah and nobody is watching you other than Allah so fear Allah with regards to those women with regards to those women and their right upon you is that they do not allow anyone to step on your bed for that you would hate meaning their right is that they must be faithful and loyal to you that's what the point is right and he's using Arabic expression stepping on their bed you understand doing things that would not be like flirtatious and what not and he said if they do something meaning disobey you you have the right to discipline them in a manner that is not painful now pause here no doubt this phrase is problematic for some people of our time and that's a separate tangent the fact of the matter in this society in this society when it was the norm that men would beat their wives without any question this was the normal rule and we learned this from so many narrations what did our Prophet ﷺ say if they do something of a serious consequence then you may discipline them without any pain without any injury now whether this should be done in our times or not and what not that's a separate discussion and that's beyond the scope of my seerah lesson I've given talks about that as well and in our times any type of discipline to be honest is something that is going to break a marriage rather than save a marriage and this is something that I have talked about in other classes the point is our Prophet ﷺ set guidelines Those guidelines might not be palatable to some people in the 21st century. But one needs to realize when this was said, Wallahi, this is groundbreaking. This is something that is leaps and bounds above what the people are doing with their women and their wives. So if, sorry, and they have a right on you. So all of this is about women. They have a right on you. Sorry, they have a right over you. that you give them their rizq and their nafqa, their sustenance, in a manner that is suitable to you. Meaning, you are obliged to take care of them financially, and all of their needs in a manner that is in accordance. Bilma'roof. Bilma'roof means, according to what you have, your wife and family shall live. So, he stresses family rights in the khutbat al-wata'a. and he talks about your money needs to be used upon your wife and your children in a manner that is equitable to you. Then he said, and I have left amongst you something that as long as you hold it, you will never go astray, the Kitabullah, the book of Allah, Jalaluhu. So this was the khutbat al-wada' that is in Arafah. We're gonna get to another one tomorrow. And he said, you shall soon be asked about me, so what shall you say? So they replied, we will testify in front of Allah that you have conveyed the message and done your duty and that you were sincere. So he wants to be a clean conscious in front of Allah that, oh Allah, I have done my job. I have conveyed the message of Islam and I have done what you wanted me to do.

[22] So they replied, we will testify in front of Allah that you have conveyed the message and done your duty and that you were sincere. So he wants to be a clean conscious in front of Allah that, oh Allah, I have done my job. I have conveyed the message of Islam and I have done what you wanted me to do. And when they said this, he raised his hands to the sky, his fingers to the sky, and he said, Allahumma fashhad. Allahumma fashhad. Allahumma fasha, three times. Oh Allah, bear witness that they have said, they have heard me, they've understood. So oh Allah, bear witness. And why? Because Allah says in the Qur'an, that on that day, you will be a witness, and on that day, every ummah will be asked about its witness, or its messenger. So the messengers will be asked, and the ummah will be asked. فَلَنَسْأَلَنَّ الَّذِينَ أُرْسِلَ إِلَيْهِمْ وَلَنَسْأَلَنَّ الْمُرْسَلِينَ we shall ask the people who had the prophet we shall ask the prophets both will be asked so our Prophet ﷺ wanted the ummah to respond on the day of judgment that oh Allah our Prophet ﷺ has done the job so he's making them testify and they all testified to this and on the next day on the day of an-nahr on the day of sacrifice the 10th of Dhul Hijjah he gave another khutbah on the 10th of Dhul Hijjah and he said that verily time has returned to its rightful place as it was on the day that Allah created the heavens and the earth. A year is 12 months, four of which are sacred, three of them are consecutive, Dhul Qa'ada, Dhul Hijjah and Muharram and the Rajab of Mudar which is between Jum'at and Sha'ban. Pause here. What is he talking about? What he is saying is the following. The Quraysh had this weird custom of changing the years around whenever they wanted to. So if they wanted to go to war, and it happened to be one of the sacred months, they would say, you know what, let's just swap. So in our English calendar, because we'll understand, suppose January is sacred, February is not. They wanted to go to war in January, they'll say, okay, let's all pretend it's February now, and we'll do January next month. Okay? That's literally what they would do. I'm not exaggerating this. They would just swap the month. Now obviously after a few years, all the months are jumbled up. It's confused. after a few years of doing what what so now it gets a little bit confused so this year the year that the Prophet ﷺ did hajj he said it is the qadr of Allah it so happened, coincidence, Allah's qadr that this year's calendar was exactly the way that it should be just like according to the nizam, the tartib the day that Allah created the heavens and the earth those same 12 months in the right order were in this year as well. In other words, keep the calendar. Which is what the Muslims have done. Keep the calendar.

[23] In other words, keep the calendar. Which is what the Muslims have done. Keep the calendar. They have kept the same calendar. So time has returned to the original as it was the day Allah created the heavens and the earth. These four months are sacred. Keep those four months there. Don't mess them around. So that's what that is about. Then he paused. Then he said, what month is this? And the people were shocked because that's such an obvious question. So they were too embarrassed to answer. So then he said, Isn't this the month of Dhul Hijjah? And they said yes. Then he was quiet. Then he said, what day is this? They were again like, this is such an obvious question. Maybe he's gonna change the day. They didn't know what to answer. So he said, isn't this the day of An-Nahar? They said yes. They said, what place is this? Again, they were like, this is too embarrassing. This is such an obvious question. So he said, this is Mina. This is the area of the Haram. So then he said, and again the point being, all of the Arabs understood the sanctity of the Ka'bah, Mina, the day, the time they all understood how holy this was so then he said the same message again but in a different way by asking them these questions to make them realize and think how holy is Mecca how holy is Dhul Hijjah how holy is the day of An-Nahr so he said verily your lives and your money now he added and your honor A'rad you don't slander other people you don't speak about other people's integrity they are haram upon you just as sacred as this month is upon you and this day is upon you and this place is upon you now what is he doing in all of this subhanallah he is uniting the ummah this is what he is doing here making the ummah one forget everything you must all be one ummah under Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala and then he said so waylakum woe to you do not return to being kuffar killing one another so don't return to that don't become kuffar after me don't become kuffar after me so he is saying those were such ridiculous pagan evil ways, don't go back to that and astaghfirullah but look at the Muslim ummah now and what it is doing and our Prophet ﷺ the last point he is saying don't kill one another this is the ways of the kuffar is not the ways of the Muslims. And he said, let the one who is present go and inform the one who is absent. Go and tell people about this khutbah. So perhaps the one who hears understands better than the one who heard it for the first time. And in one version in Tirmidhi, he said, إِنَّ الشَّيْطَانَ قَدْ يَأِسَ أَنْ يُعْبَدَ فِي هَذِهِ الْجَزِيرَةِ Shaytan has given up hope of being worshipped in this peninsula, in this land.

[24] Arabia will not return to idolatry pause here footnote until the days of Dajjal that is another thing the very last generations after Dajjal yes but in the middle interim Arabia will not return to idolatry it's not gonna find those idols being resurrected Shaytan has given up hope of being worshipped in your land He is still worshipped in other lands. But not in this land. But what is he hoping now? But he is hopeful in you obeying him in matters that you consider trivial. Sins and other things. That's what his hope is. That you're gonna obey him on other things. And in one version he said, فِالتَّحْرِيشِ بَيْنَكُمْ What he's hoping for is to rile you up so that you fight one another. This is what shaitan wants. Disunity. To fight one another. that's where he's optimistic and he might get you guys he's not gonna get you from an idol anymore you're not gonna be worshipping an idol as an ummah now this doesn't mean no Muslim will ever become an idol worshipper it means the ummah as a whole will not return to idolatry which is the case alhamdulillah the bulk of the ummah is not worshipping idols and it will not worship idols until the day of judgement and he said the famous hadith as well that the Muslim the real Muslim is the one from whose hands and tongue other Muslims are safe from and the mu'min is the one whom the people aminu, trust with their money and their property and the muhajir is the one who has left the sins committing from Allah and the mujahid is the one who is striving in the path of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala and in a hadith in Tidmidi we learn from all of these are different hadith by the way that one sahabi is hearing something, he reports it. From the khutbah, hajatul wada' and the khutbah on minna. And in Tirmidhi, the hadith says, the famous hadith, which we say all the time, it was actually said in hajatul wada' that fear Allah and pray your five prayers and fast your month of Ramadan and give your zakah and obey your rulers and you shall enter the Jannah of your Lord. Meaning, concentrate on the arkan of Islam. Be good Muslims, you will enter Jannah. and in the mustadab imam ahmad in the famous hadith as well that all of us have memorized and have heard since we were children and it is an authentic hadith that our prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam said all of you are from one and your father is one la fadla li arabiyyan ala ajamiyin wala ajamiyin ala arabi wala li ahmara ala aswada wala aswada ala ahmara illa bittakwa this is an authentic hadith in muslim imam ahmad from the hajjat al-wada'a. And this is completely revolutionary. As I have said many times before, no philosopher, thinker, intellectual leader in the history of humanity had ever said, all humans are equal. Nobody. Every society thought, we are better. Whether it was ethnicity, whether it was race, they always thought we are better.

[25] And this is completely revolutionary. As I have said many times before, no philosopher, thinker, intellectual leader in the history of humanity had ever said, all humans are equal. Nobody. Every society thought, we are better. Whether it was ethnicity, whether it was race, they always thought we are better. And the first person to say this, and clearly this is from the divine, because this is not something that the son of Abdul Muttalib would want to say, if he were simply the son of Abdul Muttalib. The person who has the most noble lineage amongst all of the Arabs, he is the one saying, it doesn't matter whether you're Arab or Ajam, whether you're white or black, it's all irrelevant except with taqwa. That is revolutionary for humanity and now we are still struggling with this concept, but we know it's right in our world, we know it's right, but we're still struggling with this concept. 14 centuries ago, the first human to ever say it so bluntly was our Prophet ﷺ. So all of these are various narrations. So by the way, when we see that big poster about Hajjatul Wada' realize that that poster is a conglomeration of all of these lectures. And the fact of the matter is he gave a khutbah in Arafah, he gave a khutbah on the 12th, he gave a khutbah on the 11th, he gave a khutbah on the 10th, and all of them put together we get the big poster that we see. And there's nothing wrong with that, just realized that's not one khutbah he actually gave many smaller khutbahs so we now conclude and we say that the Prophet ﷺ spent three nights in Mina typically we spend two we leave on the twelfth but it is allowed to spend on the thirteenth our Prophet ﷺ spent the thirteenth in Mina and at night he went to perform tawaf al-wada' at night and he then returned on his journey to Medina Aisha narrates that when they first arrived in Mecca this is the fourth of Dhul Hijjah when they first arrived in Mecca, the Prophet ﷺ entered in her tent and she was crying so we go back a bit the fourth, and the Prophet ﷺ said, Malaki Anafisti what is the matter have you started your menses and by the way this shows us so many things firstly our Prophet ﷺ intuitively subhanallah he's in tune why would she be crying, and immediately also our sisters are always irritated when they get that cycle in the last 10 days of Ramadan or for Hajj and Umrah or whatever, you're not the first. Your mother Aisha was crying when she started her menses. She was crying because the menses have begun and she's literally outside of Mecca. So she's very sad. Now what am I gonna do? So the Prophet ﷺ said, don't worry.

[26] Your mother Aisha was crying when she started her menses. She was crying because the menses have begun and she's literally outside of Mecca. So she's very sad. Now what am I gonna do? So the Prophet ﷺ said, don't worry. This is something كَتَبَهُ اللَّهُ عَلَى بَنَاتِ آدَمِ Allah has written it on all of the daughters of Adam all women get this don't cry do everything that the Hujjaj do except tawaf so you will go to Arafah, you will go to Muzdalifah you will go to Mina, you will do the Rami you will do your dua all that the Hujjaj do except tawaf and then on the day of the 13th she finished the menses and, or sorry, before the 13th sorry she finished her mences some days on Mina we don't know exactly when so she went and she did the the tawaf of ifadah which is the tawaf of hajj now on the 13th when they're gonna come back to Mina to sorry to Medina Aisha says ya Rasulullah are all of your wives going to go back having performed an umrah and a hajj and I only have hajj it's not fair so the Prophet ﷺ said Ya Aisha, it's sufficient that you did the tawaf, you did everything you have it, meaning ifrah, it's fine, no big deal but Aisha said your wives will have double and I'll have one no that's not gonna happen so she insisted and as all good husbands do when your wife insists you give up so our Prophet ﷺ then told Abdur Rahman her brother, Ibn Abi Bakr, to take her to... Where did he take her? Was it called Masjid Aisha back then? Obviously not. Tan'im. Tan'im is the closest place to Mecca outside of its haram. So the haram of Mecca, call it a circle or whatever, so the smallest distance from the Ka'bah to the circle of Mecca, the circle of the haram, excuse me, will be Tan'im, clear? Right? So it's not a full circle, it's more of an oblong thing. So the smallest distance would be Tan'im. so he told Abdurrahman ibn al-Bakr take her to Tan'eem put her in a haram and do the umrah with her sorry let her do the umrah Abdurrahman himself did not do umrah by the way this is interesting he's accompanying Aisha but he does not do umrah you may listen to my lecture online about the fiqh of umrah I go into all of the madahib about should you do multiple umrahs when you're inside of Mecca and I go into all of this and you know it's clear in my humble opinion it's permissible but it's not the encouraged thing to do it's permissible Aisha did it, she insisted so she did it but her own brother and none of the sahaba repeated the umrah but it shows it's halal it's nothing wrong so the one who wants to do it, let him do it don't make a big deal Aisha insisted, khalas let her go so she does her umrah and they then go back to and they meet up, the process is already left by the way So they meet him back on the journey and they make their way back to Medina.

[27] One very important final incident which we have to discuss just briefly. And that is the incident that is a very big source of controversy between the Sunni and the Shia schools of thought. It is very important for the Shia this incident. And for us this incident really is an innocent story. It's a very simple explanation. but for the Shia this story becomes the basis of Ali being the next Khalifa for us the story is so innocent that Ibn Hisham and others they mention it just like almost in passing it's not anything of that significance it's a context, you understand the context, it's pretty clear no big deal, but for the Shia this story becomes the basis really of Ali being the Khalifa so in the books of seerah in the books of hadith this is well known the sunnis do not change history the sunnis are not embarrassed about anything there's this charge that always comes that the sunnis hide the blessings of Ali no wallahi Ali radiallahu anhu is of the best of the sahaba and his blessings are more than can be narrated and he was the son-in-law and the cousin and the al-bayt and his blessings are on and on and on but Abu Bakr and Uman and Uthman are also blessed and Abu Bakr deserved to be the khalifa before him. His time came when he was worthy of it and he was worthy of it. But Abu Bakr and Umar and Uthman رضي الله عنهم أجمعين they are also righteous people and we don't compete between them. Ali deserved to be the khalifa and he became the khalifa when he deserved to be the khalifa. In any case, that's not the point right now. What is this incident? It is the incident that is called غدير خم the well of خم غدير خم the well of خم and it occurred the next day outside of Mecca and it's a very innocent story from the Sunni perspective. What happened? So, where did Ali come from? Remind me. Yemen. He's coming from Yemen. And as he's coming from Yemen, obviously he has his entourage with him. He has his people under him. And he has the wealth of Yemen, the zakat, the sadaqah, all of this he has. And he has 100 camels for the Prophet ﷺ. Now, he arrives in Mecca. He's very excited. He rushes to meet the Prophet ﷺ. He leaves somebody in charge of his entourage. the person he leaves in charge his name is mentioned he decides to distribute new clothes to the entire entourage from the treasury from the sadaqah like we deserve this basically this is our pay so he takes new clothes and he gives it to all of them and Yemen was known for his good clothes by the way Yemeni clothes were very good clothes and cloth was good cloth and he basically made his own ishtihad that we deserve this and we're supposed to look good now we're coming to the people. Now this was technically what? It's not allowed. Ali comes back and he is incensed. How could you do this? Take the clothes off your backs and put them back in the sadaqah. And so how do you think they're gonna feel? Not too happy.

[28] Now this was technically what? It's not allowed. Ali comes back and he is incensed. How could you do this? Take the clothes off your backs and put them back in the sadaqah. And so how do you think they're gonna feel? Not too happy. They're grumbling, they're mumbling, they're angry and as soon as they get the opportunity right after hajj they complain to the Prophet ﷺ. Not in hajj, hajj is going on, let's finish up hajj. Soon as hajj finishes, They complained to the Prophet ﷺ. So the Prophet ﷺ then gives that paragraph that is known as the Sermon of Ghadir Khum. And in it he says that, he praises Ali رضي الله عنه. And he says that, whoever is the Mawla of Ali, then I am the Mawla of Ali. And Ali is to me like Harun and Musa. So he praises him in a very, very high manner. And there's no denying this. and he rebukes those people for criticizing Ali and they deserved to be rebuked who are you to take these garments out of the box out of the charity and what not and distribute it's not yours to do and he says that Ali is indeed the Mawla Allah has protected Ali and Allah loves Ali so stop complaining to me about Ali stop complaining to me about Ali and he says that and this is where he also says that I'm leaving behind me two things. As for the first of them, hold on to it, it is the book of Allah. And as for the second, fear Allah with regards to my family, fear Allah with regards to my family. Now it's very important here. He did not say, hold on to my family. He said, fear Allah with regards to my family, meaning, make sure you treat them well. Make sure you treat them well, and you are hurting Ali and hurting Ali is hurting me and all of this is legitimate and valid and we have no problems affirming all of these blessings, but the context is clear, the context is crystal clear and that is why, simple point when our procession passes away four months later and the sahaba are gathered together none of them, including the supporters of Ali mention Ghadir Khum it wasn't in their minds that Ghadir Khum is about the Khilafah. It wasn't in their minds that Ghadir Khum is about who's gonna be the next person in charge. It was simply in the context of what's going on, stop irritating me about Ali. He is of my family. And he's done the right decision and you guys are wrong. And that's absolutely valid. Nothing there to basically read into. So this is the incident of Ghadir Khum. And as I said from our perspective, it's all valid. It completely happened. But we don't read in, what don't we read in?

[29] And he's done the right decision and you guys are wrong. And that's absolutely valid. Nothing there to basically read into. So this is the incident of Ghadir Khum. And as I said from our perspective, it's all valid. It completely happened. But we don't read in, what don't we read in? politics we don't read in politics and the sahaba did not read in politics either and this is of the blessings of Ali so the final point we conclude with this inshallah ta'ala of the main benefits of the sermon of our Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam obliterating all of the customs of jahiliyyah obliterating the ways of jahiliyyah and beginning with his own family to demonstrate the reality of what he is preaching this is a new beginning for the rest of the ummah all old laws are gone under my foot and new laws of Islam will come our Prophet ﷺ stressed the rights of the Muslims amongst each other strengthening the ties of the ummah that was of paramount importance if the ummah was not united then the Persian empire would not be conquered in a few years and the Roman empire would not be carved into half and the Muslims would not conquer half of the known world that wouldn't happen so he is preparing the foundation for the expansion of the Ummah. He is obliterating Jahili tribes and Jahili racism. These are the two main things that divide the Ummah to this day. We don't have tribes anymore, we have nation states and we still have racism. Skin color, ethnicity, nation states, all of these, what are they? Figments of the imagination. إِنَّ أَكْرَمَكُمْ عَنْدَ اللَّهِ أَتْقَاكُمْ He emphasized the rights of women and most importantly, he left them with the primary source of law. He said, hold on to it, And that is the book of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala. Insha'Allah ta'ala, with that we have gone very long today. But as you know, we are finishing up, so you're gonna have to bear with me. And our last seerah will be insha'Allah ta'ala this Saturday, 7 p.m. sharp. 7 p.m. sharp will be this Saturday insha'Allah ta'ala. So it will be an extra long. We'll be finishing up the episodes of the seerah with the final sickness and then the death of our Prophet ﷺ. And I will see you then. Wassalamu alaikum warahmatullahi wabarakatuh.